TELCODOCS-279: D/S Docs & RN: METAL-5 (MPHARDWARE-7) Metal Platform Implementation: Low Latency Event Mechanism for RAN Workloads (Fast Path) (#42700)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-rfhe-creating_bmc_event_sub.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/using-rfhe.adoc
:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-rfhe-creating_bmc_event_sub_{context}"]
= Subscribing to Redfish hardware events
You can configure applications that are running on bare-metal cluster nodes to subscribe to Redfish hardware events that the baseboard management controller (BMC) generates. Example Redfish events include increase in device temperature, or removal of a device. Applications subscribe to Redfish hardware events using a REST API.

> Before you can subscribe to Redfish hardware events for the node, you must create a `BMCEventSubscription` custom resource (CR) for the node.

Author: Updated as suggested.

====
[NOTE]
====
Use the `BMCEventSubscription` CR to subscribe to pre-defined Redfish events. The Redfish standard does not provide an option to create specific alerts and thresholds. For example, to receive an alert event when an enclosure's temperature exceeds 40° Celsius, you need to manually configure the event according to the vendor's recommendations.
====
.Prerequisites
* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* Get the user name and password for the BMC.
* Deploy a bare-metal node with Redfish hardware in your cluster, and enable Redfish events on the BMC.
[NOTE]
====
Enabling Redfish events on specific hardware is outside the scope of this information. For more information about enabling Redfish events for your specific hardware, consult the BMC manufacturer documentation.
====
.Procedure
. Confirm the node hardware has the Redfish `EventService` enabled using the following `curl` command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl https://<bmc_ip_address>/redfish/v1/EventService --insecure -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -u "<user_name>:<password>"
----
+

> where:

Reviewer: It's tricky to include callouts on single line commands. This is acceptable usage. Username and password are for the BMC controller.

> where:

Reviewer 2: Agreed @aireilly this is acceptable usage.

> where:

Reviewer: @ktothill Can you make this suggested change and get this merged please?

> where:

Author: @aireilly happy to! Thanks so much!

====

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* Deploy a bare-metal node with Redfish hardware in your cluster.
* Get the user name and password for the bare-metal node BMC.

.Procedure

. Confirm the hardware has the Redfish `EventService` enabled using the following `curl` command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
curl https://<bmc_ip_address>/redfish/v1/EventService --insecure -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -u "<user_name>:<password>"
----
+
where:
+
--
bmc_ip_address:: is the IP address of the BMC controller
--
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
{
   "@odata.context":"/redfish/v1/$metadata#EventService.EventService",
   "@odata.id":"/redfish/v1/EventService",
   "@odata.type":"#EventService.v1_0_2.EventService",
   "Actions":{
      "#EventService.SubmitTestEvent":{
         "EventType@Redfish.AllowableValues":[
            "StatusChange",
            "ResourceUpdated",
            "ResourceAdded",
            "ResourceRemoved",
            "Alert"
         ],
         "target":"/redfish/v1/EventService/Actions/EventService.SubmitTestEvent"
      }
   }
...

> }

Reviewer 3: Maybe I'm a bit lost, but the output above should have the `"ServiceEnabled": true,` this would be the information the person should look at to understand if the service is enabled.

Reviewer: Added this.

----

. Create a `BMCEventSubscription` resource to subscribe to the Redfish events:

.. Save the following YAML in the `bmc_sub.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
kind: BMCEventSubscription
metadata:
  name: sub-01
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
   hostName: <hostname> <1>
   destination: https://hw-event-proxy-cloud-native-events.apps.compute-1.example.com/webhook <2>
   context: ''
----
<1> Specifies the name or UUID of the worker node where the Redfish events are generated.
<2> Specifies the Baremetal Hardware Event proxy service.
+

> .. Create the `BMCEventSubscription` CR:

Reviewer 3: Don't we need to cover how to delete a subscription?

+
[source,yaml]
----
$ oc create -f bmc_sub.yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,json]
----
{
   "ServiceEnabled":true,
   "Status":{
      "Health":"OK",
      "HealthRollup":"OK",
      "State":"Enabled"
   }

> }

Reviewer 3: I'm wondering why this part is separate from the other output

Reviewer: Will correct this, thanks.

[id="subscribing-hw-events_{context}"]
= Subscribing to Redfish BMC hardware events for a cluster node

> Users of bare metal hardware may want to receive events from the baseboard management controller (BMC) to act on them in case of a hardware fault, such as an increase in temperature or removal of a device. The Redfish standard includes the ability to subscribe to events, which will cause hardware events to be sent in a particular format to a destination URI. Configuring a subscription is done using the Metal3 API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can subscribe applications that are running in the cluster to Redfish hardware events using a `BMCEventSubscription` custom resource (CR). Events are generated in response to faults in the baseboard management controller (BMC) that manages the host hardware. A fault could be an increase in temperature, a power fault, or the removal of a hardware device.
```

Execute the following procedure from the desired node to configure event subscriptions and alerts.

[IMPORTANT]
====
This feature only works on physical hardware running Redfish with support for events with a vendor interface set to `redfish` or `idrac-redfish`. 
====

.Procedure

. Power off the bare metal node by using the baseboard management controller, and ensure it is off.

. Retrieve the user name and password of the bare metal node's baseboard management controller. 

> .Confirm the hardware has EventService enabled by using the iDRAC/iLO interface [Add Steps] or the following cURL command:

Reviewer: iDRAC/ILO consoles will be different across different hardware. I don't think we can cover all procedures. Could just refer to the iDRAC/iLO generally. The curl command should be sufficient, since the redfish API should be up regardless of the BMC type

+
[source,terminal]
----
curl https://<bmc_address>/redfish/v1/EventService --insecure -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -u "<username>:<password>"
----
+
. Create a configuration file for the bare metal node.
+

> [source,terminal,subs="+quotes"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a subscription for the BMC Redfish hardware events.

.. Save the following YAML in the `bmc-hw-events-sub.yaml` file, for example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
kind: BMCEventSubscription
metadata:
  name: sub-01
  namespace: <namespace>
spec:
   hostName: <hostname>
   destination: https://events.apps.corp.example.com/webhook <2>
   context: <user_context>
----

.. Create the `BMCEventSubscription` CR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f bmc-hw-events-sub.yaml
----
```

----
$ vim __<config_file>__.yaml
----
+
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
----
apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
kind: BMCEventSubscription
metadata:
name: sub-01
namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
hostName: cnfdd4-worker-1
destination: https://hw-event-proxy-cloud-native-events.apps.cnfdd4.t5g.lab.eng.bos.redhat.com/webhook
context: ""
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
"ServiceEnabled": true,
"Status": {
"Health": "OK",
"HealthRollup": "OK",
"State": "Enabled"
},
----
+
.Create the subscription
+
[source,terminal,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc apply -f __<config_file>__.yaml
----
+

> .Delete the subscription

Reviewer: Don't think we need to cover this
